packages/docs/docs/self-hosting/digital-ocean.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 9
---

# Setting Up Medplum on DigitalOcean

This guide will walk you through the process of setting up Medplum on DigitalOcean

You can either run the Medplum API in a droplet following the Ubuntu instructions or run it as an app


## Prerequisites

#### Option 1: Running Medplum API in a Droplet

- Create a new Droplet with Ubuntu
- SSH into your Droplet
- Install postgres & redis directly or using docker
- Install Node.js and npm:
- Clone the Medplum repository or use the dockerfile
- Change the `medplum.config.json` file
- Install dependencies:
- Set up environment variables:
- Run the Medplum API:

#### Option 2: Running Medplum as an App

##### Prerequisites

**Create a PostgreSQL Database**

Using managed database

- Configure your database settings (e.g., region, cluster name).
- Note down the database connection details (host, port, database name, username, password).

**Create a Redis Database**

- Configure your database settings (e.g., region, cluster name).
- Note down the Redis connection details (host, port, password).


**Create a managed app**


- Select your fork repository and branch

The configuration will be passed as `MEDPLUM_` environment variables

Configure the build and run commands:

**Build Command:**

```
npm install -g @microsoft/api-extractor @microsoft/api-documenter @testing-library/jest-dom rimraf turbo
npx turbo run build --filter=@medplum/server
```

**Run Command:**

```
node packages/server/dist/index.js env
```

**Medplum Configuration**

Set up environment variables in the DigitalOcean interface:

**Database connection**

Indicate that the app and the database are related to enable connections.

[How to add my DigitalOcean App as a trusted resource for my Managed Database](https://docs.digitalocean.com/products/app-platform/how-to/manage-databases/)

```
NODE_ENV=development
MEDPLUM_PORT=8103
MEDPLUM_BASE_URL=https://medplum.yourdomain.com/
MEDPLUM_ISSUER=https://medplum.yourdomain.com/
MEDPLUM_JWKS_URL=https://medplum.yourdomain.com/.well-known/jwks.json
MEDPLUM_AUTHORIZE_URL=https://medplum.yourdomain.com/oauth2/authorize
MEDPLUM_TOKEN_URL=https://medplum.yourdomain.com/oauth2/token
MEDPLUM_USER_INFO_URL=https://medplum.yourdomain.com/oauth2/userinfo
MEDPLUM_APP_BASE_URL=https://ehr.yourdomain.com/
MEDPLUM_STORAGE_BASE_URL=https://your-storage-url
MEDPLUM_MAX_JSON_SIZE=1mb
MEDPLUM_MAX_BATCH_SIZE=50mb
MEDPLUM_BCRYPT_HASH_SALT=10
MEDPLUM_SHUTDOWN_TIMEOUT_MILLISECONDS=30000
MEDPLUM_ACCURATE_COUNT_THRESHOLD=1000000
MEDPLUM_EMAIL_PROVIDER=smtp
MEDPLUM_SUPPORT_EMAIL=support@yourdomain.com
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_HOST=your-database-host
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_PORT=25060
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_DBNAME=your-database-name
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_USERNAME=your-database-username
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_PASSWORD=your-database-password
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_SSL_CA="-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----"
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_SSL_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED=true
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_SSL_REQUIRE=true
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_QUERY_TIMEOUT=60000
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_RUN_MIGRATIONS=true
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_MAX_CONNECTIONS=10
MEDPLUM_REDIS_HOST=your-redis-host
MEDPLUM_REDIS_PORT=6379
MEDPLUM_REDIS_PASSWORD=your-redis-password
MEDPLUM_REDIS_DB=0
MEDPLUM_REDIS_TLS={}
MEDPLUM_SMTP_HOST=your-smtp-host
MEDPLUM_SMTP_PORT=587
MEDPLUM_SMTP_USERNAME=your-smtp-username
MEDPLUM_SMTP_PASSWORD=your-smtp-password
MEDPLUM_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=your-google-client-id
MEDPLUM_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=your-google-client-secret
MEDPLUM_RECAPTCHA_SITE_KEY=your-recaptcha-site-key
MEDPLUM_RECAPTCHA_SECRET_KEY=your-recaptcha-secret-key
MEDPLUM_LOG_LEVEL=info
MEDPLUM_LOG_REQUESTS=true
MEDPLUM_LOG_AUDIT_EVENTS=true
MEDPLUM_SAVE_AUDIT_EVENTS=true
MEDPLUM_REGISTER_ENABLED=true
MEDPLUM_INTROSPECTION_ENABLED=true
MEDPLUM_KEEP_ALIVE_TIMEOUT=60000
MEDPLUM_VM_CONTEXT_BOTS_ENABLED=true
MEDPLUM_HEARTBEAT_MILLISECONDS=30000
MEDPLUM_HEARTBEAT_ENABLED=true
MEDPLUM_MAX_SEARCH_OFFSET=1000
MEDPLUM_DEFAULT_RATE_LIMIT=100
MEDPLUM_DEFAULT_AUTH_RATE_LIMIT=100
MEDPLUM_MAX_BOT_LOG_LENGTH_FOR_RESOURCE=1000
MEDPLUM_MAX_BOT_LOG_LENGTH_FOR_LOGS=1000
MEDPLUM_CHAINED_SEARCH_WITH_REFERENCE_TABLES=true
```

Commit message:

Including AWS endpoint from ENV

packages/docs/docs/self-hosting/digital-ocean.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 9
---

# Setting Up Medplum on DigitalOcean

This guide will walk you through the process of setting up Medplum on DigitalOcean

You can either run the Medplum API in a droplet following the Ubuntu instructions or run it as an app


## Prerequisites

#### Option 1: Running Medplum API in a Droplet

- Create a new Droplet with Ubuntu
- SSH into your Droplet
- Install postgres & redis directly or using docker
- Install Node.js and npm:
- Clone the Medplum repository or use the dockerfile
- Change the `medplum.config.json` file
- Install dependencies:
- Set up environment variables:
- Run the Medplum API:

#### Option 2: Running Medplum as an App

##### Prerequisites

**Create a PostgreSQL Database**

Using managed database

- Configure your database settings (e.g., region, cluster name).
- Note down the database connection details (host, port, database name, username, password).

**Create a Redis Database**

- Configure your database settings (e.g., region, cluster name).
- Note down the Redis connection details (host, port, password).


**Create a managed app**


- Select your fork repository and branch

The configuration will be passed as `MEDPLUM_` environment variables

Configure the build and run commands:

**Build Command:**

```
npm install -g @microsoft/api-extractor @microsoft/api-documenter @testing-library/jest-dom rimraf turbo
npx turbo run build --filter=@medplum/server
```

**Run Command:**

```
node packages/server/dist/index.js env
```

**Medplum Configuration**

Set up environment variables in the DigitalOcean interface:

**Database connection**

Indicate that the app and the database are related to enable connections.

[How to add my DigitalOcean App as a trusted resource for my Managed Database](https://docs.digitalocean.com/products/app-platform/how-to/manage-databases/)

**Binary Storage**

Digital Ocean Object storage is compatible with the S3 API. Using `AWS_` env vars to indicate the bucket name, key id, secret and endpoint.


```
NODE_ENV=development
MEDPLUM_PORT=8103
MEDPLUM_BASE_URL=https://medplum.yourdomain.com/
MEDPLUM_ISSUER=https://medplum.yourdomain.com/
MEDPLUM_JWKS_URL=https://medplum.yourdomain.com/.well-known/jwks.json
MEDPLUM_AUTHORIZE_URL=https://medplum.yourdomain.com/oauth2/authorize
MEDPLUM_TOKEN_URL=https://medplum.yourdomain.com/oauth2/token
MEDPLUM_USER_INFO_URL=https://medplum.yourdomain.com/oauth2/userinfo
MEDPLUM_APP_BASE_URL=https://ehr.yourdomain.com/
MEDPLUM_STORAGE_BASE_URL=https://your-storage-url
MEDPLUM_BINARY_STORAGE=s3:calima-medplum-1
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=DO00Q9C4AQJKVJAKANNN
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=QSIt+eaB2ICBT6uR6UJRI7eeDK3kIjK+i+8gaW6eRf4
AWS_REGION=us-east-1
AWS_ENDPOINT=https://nyc3.digitaloceanspaces.com

MEDPLUM_BCRYPT_HASH_SALT=10
MEDPLUM_SHUTDOWN_TIMEOUT_MILLISECONDS=30000
MEDPLUM_ACCURATE_COUNT_THRESHOLD=1000000
MEDPLUM_EMAIL_PROVIDER=smtp
MEDPLUM_SUPPORT_EMAIL=support@yourdomain.com
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_HOST=your-database-host
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_PORT=25060
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_DBNAME=your-database-name
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_USERNAME=your-database-username
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_PASSWORD=your-database-password
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_SSL_CA="-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----"
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_SSL_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED=true
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_SSL_REQUIRE=true
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_QUERY_TIMEOUT=60000
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_RUN_MIGRATIONS=true
MEDPLUM_DATABASE_MAX_CONNECTIONS=10
MEDPLUM_REDIS_HOST=your-redis-host
MEDPLUM_REDIS_PORT=6379
MEDPLUM_REDIS_PASSWORD=your-redis-password
MEDPLUM_REDIS_DB=0
MEDPLUM_REDIS_TLS={}
MEDPLUM_SMTP_HOST=your-smtp-host
MEDPLUM_SMTP_PORT=587
MEDPLUM_SMTP_USERNAME=your-smtp-username
MEDPLUM_SMTP_PASSWORD=your-smtp-password
MEDPLUM_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=your-google-client-id
MEDPLUM_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=your-google-client-secret
MEDPLUM_RECAPTCHA_SITE_KEY=your-recaptcha-site-key
MEDPLUM_RECAPTCHA_SECRET_KEY=your-recaptcha-secret-key
MEDPLUM_LOG_LEVEL=info
MEDPLUM_LOG_REQUESTS=true
MEDPLUM_LOG_AUDIT_EVENTS=true
MEDPLUM_SAVE_AUDIT_EVENTS=true
MEDPLUM_REGISTER_ENABLED=true
MEDPLUM_INTROSPECTION_ENABLED=true
MEDPLUM_KEEP_ALIVE_TIMEOUT=60000
MEDPLUM_VM_CONTEXT_BOTS_ENABLED=true
MEDPLUM_HEARTBEAT_MILLISECONDS=30000
MEDPLUM_HEARTBEAT_ENABLED=true
MEDPLUM_MAX_SEARCH_OFFSET=1000
MEDPLUM_DEFAULT_RATE_LIMIT=100
MEDPLUM_DEFAULT_AUTH_RATE_LIMIT=100
MEDPLUM_MAX_BOT_LOG_LENGTH_FOR_RESOURCE=1000
MEDPLUM_MAX_BOT_LOG_LENGTH_FOR_LOGS=1000
MEDPLUM_CHAINED_SEARCH_WITH_REFERENCE_TABLES=true
```
